# Methodology
Rory O'Brien CS130 Student. My data focuses on the topic of airlines and corresponding statistics.

## Data Sources
I initially began collecting data from a variety of sources, like FiveThirtyEight, Corgis, and Kaggle. The data I was able to scrounge on the topic of airlines was miniscule and there was little to no correllation between the data I found across the three sites. Most of the flight information was outdated and came mainly from Indian airlines, which I couldn't see a way to make that relate to anything pertinent. So, I delved deeper into airline data and found myself at the [Bureau of Transportation Statistics](https://www.transtats.bts.gov/ErrPage.asp). The Bureau of Transportation Statistics has an expansive catalog from which one can easily get lost in. I decided to stick to airplanes and the statistics taken from 2025 thus far.

## Data Preparation
After scouring the Bureau of Transportation's Aviation statistics I found the data I wanted to use. I chose the three most relevant parts of air travel that people care about, mishandled baggage, cancelled flights, and delayed flights. I did download other data in order to get a better picture of what I was trying to illustrate. I downloaded the flights cancelled, and to see how they would look as a percentage, I downloaded the total amount of flights scheduled in 2025 for each month. I had to take the final columns of the two data frames and subtract the cancelled from the total, divide that by the total, then multiply by 100 to get the percentage of flights that weren't cancelled in 2025. While filling out thise section I noticed that I downloaded the wrong cancelled flights data frame, so I had to go back to the Bureau of Tansportation Statistics and download the proper one, and reorganize the functions to use the proper csv. I then went on to work on the delayed flights in respect to the days of the week. The data frame gave the percentage of flights that weren't delayed for each day of the week, but I wanted the percentage that was delayed, so I took the percentage that wasn't delayed and subtracted it from 100 for each day of the week, and those values became the new column 'PCTDelayed'. I then went on to flights delayed by weather by month.

## Assumptions
There weren't really any assumptions that had to be made. The Bureau of Transportation statistics does not mess around. On their website they breakdown what the tables say and what each column represents, so there wasn't really any confusion in what I was looking at. If there was confusion it was because I was doing something wrong or not reading something properly. The one assumption I did make was that all the flights were recorded for airlines travelling within the U.S. and not those that went abroad.

## Limitations
While there may not have been many assumptions, there certainly were limitations. The Bureau of Transportation does a very thorough job, but even they can only do so much. While the mishandled baggage was based on the specific airlines, the other data frames lacked specific airlines and simply displayed the total across all airlines in the U.S. The mishandled baggage data frame only displayed the total amount of baggage mishandled with no other breakdown. The data wasn't broken into month or day of the week like the others. I would have liked if the other data frames could have broken down into days of the week for each month, but it was months or days of the week across all the months. Maybe the biggest limitation was that not all of the months were present in the data. The data only went through July of 2025, so I wasn't able to get those months when I really wanted the months full of holidays.
